I'm so happy to welcome today a very dear friend of mine,
brother Robert P. Johnson.
RP, welcome to the program.
Thank you, Mark.
I appreciate being here.
Now, you're here, RP, because you are a wonderful example
of someone who's had a life filled with blessings
in Jehovah's service.
So I know that your family goes way back in the truth.
In fact, I understand that you're great grandfather
learned the truth in brother Russell's time,
even before 1914.
That's right.
So that means you're a fourth generation witness.
But now, like so many who are watching our program,
you were a little boy growing up in a congregation
of Jehovah's people.
So how did you come to the decision
that you wanted to dedicate your life to serve Jehovah
and then get baptized?
Well, Mark, thinking back, I can identify
at least two outstanding influences in my life.
And the first was my parents.
Having that heritage in the truth helped me.
I was just an average kid in my early years.
But the parents instilled in me a desire
to please Jehovah and make it my life to do that.
They said goals before me.
They taught me the truth.
I learned enough from them to be able to make a dedication
to Jehovah God and to have a close relationship with him.
And so early on, that's what I did.
I remember that evening, after supper,
in my bedroom, praying to Jehovah to accept my dedication.
The date was May 25, 1949.
I was 11 years old at the time.
I told my parents and they were happy.
But they just wanted me to wait longer to make sure,
especially how I would handle the teenage years and so on.
So I would.
And so then when did the moment come for you
to finally get baptized?
I was at the 1953 International Convention,
Yankee Stadium, New York, on July 22, 1953,
that I was baptized.
And again, I remember that like it was yesterday.
Well, I came up out of the water.
I thank Jehovah for that.
Finally, I am one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And I also, like a child, edit.
You can bring the end anytime now.
So you mentioned your parents,
the good influence they had on you.
But was there another influence on you that helped you?
Yes.
At the 53 convention, Brother Nor had identified
that there would be a special program for training people
in the truth.
And from the congregation, there was a brother
of the anointed named Charles Richardson.
And my father asked Brother Richardson
to train me in this training program.
And Brother Richardson was a mentor to me
for the next five years of my life.
Over the years, he helped me view the ministry
as an opportunity to help people
develop a relationship with Jehovah.
And therefore to reach out to them
in teaching them the truth, the doctrinal truth,
but to help them to see Jehovah as a real person.
And he helped me to enjoy the ministry.
That is what has kept me happy
in Jehovah's service down to this day.
Now, just from your expressions
and what you talked about with me before,
I could see that this brother Richardson
had a tremendous impact on your life.
And I think it really made you want
to be a trainer of other people
because that's how I first met you, right?
Right, right.
You were the brother assigned to be my trainer
when I came to the service department.
I remember that fondly.
And I know that I'm not the only one.
I mean, you've really spent your whole life training
other people.
Well, they spent a privilege.
And I was trained.
I was helped along the way.
I was nobody special, but Jehovah's
extended undeserved kindness to me.
And made all these things possible.
So there's no excuse for me not passing
along the baton.
And it's a delight for me to see others carry it.
So now, let's come back.
You're 15 years old.
You get baptized, Yankee Stadium.
And now, as a result of being baptized at this age,
how do you feel you were benefited?
For one thing,
you know what you want to do.
And you stay focused on it.
It makes it easier to deal with
whatever challenge come later.
And so being dedicated and baptized early in life
helped me to stay focused on the truth.
I still remember that dedication.
It means something to me.
And I tried to make it mean something to others
for as young as they can possibly make it.
And they'll find the same thing I found.
Jehovah's blessing will be with them.
So now, at 15,
what doors start to open up?
What opportunities come to you?
Because you are a baptized brother.
At age 17, I was appointed as a ministerial servant.
I started pioneering right out of high school.
At age 18.
And serving where the need was greater,
I got a chance to work at starting a new congregation.
And so, at 21, I was a congregation servant
or an elder at that point.
Then, there was a need.
The organization was looking for brothers who could do traveling work.
So, at age 25,
I had the privilege of being a traveling overseer.
So now, how did you feel?
Being elder at 21,
being a circuit overseer at 25,
was it a little bit overwhelming at such a young age?
I was scared.
I knew the truth.
But I was uncertain about myself.
But then I also know Jehovah would help me.
I learned a lot as a young traveling overseer.
And I thank Jehovah that the people in the circuits that I served endured
those three years.
But now, that was the challenges.
But what do you see as being the benefits of having a young traveling overseer?
For the congregation,
they had somebody who could stay out and feel service long hours.
And also,
the younger traveling overseer could relate to the young people
and the younger adults in the congregation.
There were other benefits that even today,
different ones that I served in earlier circuits,
bring forth to me.
For example, after having a good time in field service
and then the meetings,
I would do recreational things with the kids.
And we read track out in the streets
and we played board games, softball, basketball.
And then we had good times just talking about the truth
and also talking about how you can put your ministry first
and there's plenty of time for seeking a mate later.
So now, for a time, you were serving as a single brother.
But at some point, that changed.
When did that happen?
I have enjoyed the best of two worlds.
I enjoyed singleness and the blessings Jehovah gave me.
But when I was 28 years old,
I married a beautiful pioneer sister.
And I had already gotten adjusted in my circuit work
this was my second circuit.
So thanks to Jehovah,
we were able to be married
and to this day,
Gracie and I continued in full-time service
after 52 years of marriage.
So RP, you started with circuit work
and then later you went on to district work.
Right.
And then you were teaching the Kenan ministry school.
And then you got invited to Bethel.
Right.
And 31 years at Bethel, right?
Oh, yes.
And now you and Gracie,
you're doing a special pioneer work.
Right.
In Orlando, Florida.
So more than 60 years
of full-time service to Jehovah.
It's because of Jehovah's blessing
and it has made me happy.
So the question I want to ask you is
when you're looking back now,
these 60 wonderful years,
more than 60 wonderful years,
what would you say to young people
who are facing the same decision that you face
when you were a little boy growing up in the truth?
It's the best thing I could have done with my life.
And I had many opportunities.
Jehovah blessed my humble efforts
as he has blessed you and others too.
The young people today have even more opportunities
because Jehovah's organization
under the leadership of Jesus Christ
is expanding and moving fast.
And like Brother Richardson taught me,
if you just make yourself available,
then the organization will find a place for you
and use you.
And that's so true today.
One of my greatest joys is to see the young people
take the baton and run with it.
And I have no regrets.
There's been no challenge that overwhelmed me
and made me regret things.
There were challenges, of course.
But with Jehovah's help,
well, I'm here today.
And that can be true of our young people.
So seize the opportunity while you're young
and experience the blessing that Jehovah gives,
those who serve him from youth onward.
RP, it has been such a wonderful joy to have you here
on this program.
And to hear about your life filled with joy,
your life filled with blessings,
all because of the decision you made,
just as a little boy, to dedicate your life to Jehovah
and get baptized.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
I appreciate talking about it.